The Joe Rogan experience.
I was talking to a friend of mine about imposter syndrome that, um,
imposter syndrome. Yeah. You know, that feeling, you know, expression. No,
it's you get it when, like,
when people think that you're really good at something and you don't have a lot
of self worth, or you, you,
you have this per perception of yourself that you're not worthy. Right.
You know, like maybe as an artist, that's,
that's a big one that you have it as an artist.
Like I had it forever as a comedian and I probably still have it a little bit,
but less so than I used to because I'm just more accomplished and more
understanding of what it is and the more engrossed in the process. And I, I,
I, it is now more than I did before. Okay. And you, like,
when I meet famous people, if they know who I am, I'd be like, oh my God,
I gotta get outta here. This person knows who I am. I'm tricking. 'em right.
It's a trick they don't know. And they're like, Hey man, I love your stuff.
I'm like, no, you don't. You think you do, you don't trust me.
Let me get away from you. <laugh> right. It's like this imposter thing.
And then sometimes things, enough things happen where you go, you know what?
I think I might be legit. I think I might be legit. Like, this is so crazy.
Like I thought I was an imposter forever, but I think I'm,
I'm gonna relax and just concentrate on the work and not worry about whether or
not I'm an imposter anymore.
Just concentrate on the work that ego's always there. ISN. Yeah.
It's always there, man. And,
but the go it's interesting imposter syndrome is
often more prevalent and people are legitimately talented.
And for some strange reason, because when you're legitimately talented,
one of the ways you become legitimately talented is to be ruthlessly,
self critical, cuz that's, that's how you get really good at something.
And in ruthless, like I remember, um,
uh,
KA Williams was talking about himself once and cat Williams is a crazy person,
but a brilliant comedian. And he said something that I,
I have always thought and he's like, I'm not a fan of me.
And he goes, he goes like, I don't, you know, I don't particularly like me.
You know? It's like,
that is why he's great because that makes you work
so hard at like the worst thing a comedian can be in the
beginning is sure of themselves and then incompetent at the same time.
It's horrible. <laugh>, it's horrible because you're not good. Good.
But you think you're amazing. And then you understand,
you don't know why the world doesn't think you're amazing because you think
you're good. Cuz you're delusional. You have this sort of artificial
image of the world that you've put up. And in the world, you are the center,
you are the center and you want everything to evolve around you.
And the worst thing in terms of, for comedy,
you people have to enjoy what you're doing. They have to enjoy.
And not, not, everyone's gonna,
you're always gonna have some people that don't enjoy no matter what,
but you're trying to make it an enjoyable experience for the people watching
you. Now,
if you are delusional and clueless and if
you, you don't understand how people see you, you,
you have a distorted perception of reality, distorted perception of your,
your own, your own presence.
It up the vibe for the audience. It up. They, they,
they recognize it too quickly because comedy in a weird way
is a spiritual pursuit for the person who's making it because you are putting
together thoughts and ideas.
And you're trying to get it into these people's minds in a way that I elicits a
response that makes them feel good.
And the only way that you could really do it is you have to hit those notes.
You have to reach that, that resonance. You have to find that frequency,
whatever it is that works on them.
And you can't be thinking about yourself too much
in you. Can't be pleased with yourself. Can't be happy with yourself.
You always have to be analyzing you are, you are the, the sculptor.
You have to be critical, you know, always have to. And so in doing that,
it's really easy to develop imposter syndrome.
Cause even when you're think doing well, you know, like chip I've had like,
I don't know, nine or 10 comedy specials. It doesn't matter.
It doesn't matter how many people lack em. They, they say, I gotta keep going.
Right. You gotta keep working at it. It like a type of, so when perfectionism,
yeah. So when someone would, I don't remember how we even got onto this,
but that imposter syndrome exists because your,
your ego won't like your mind understands that you ego will
this up. If, if you let your egos say, oh, I'm the man.
You're gonna ruin this whole thing. Mm. Like you have to,
you have to be aware of what this is like, this, this,
this ride requires you to stay within a certain frequency.
You have to stay inside that frequency as soon as you start going. Yeah.
Everything's awesome. It all goes away. <laugh> all it goes away.
You have to stay inside that frequency.
And that frequency is not a frequency where you're very pleased with yourself.
Um, I think you've gone for full circle back to the Baga Vada. Yeah.
Cause the Bagga vagida is the warriors have to fight the war.
You think it's you think the Bagga vigida's gonna be like here's C Krishna
telling R juah not to fight. Mm-hmm <affirmative> rjna doesn't wanna fight.
He's got his guru on the other side. He's got his family on the other side. Um,
what's Christian gonna say about this and Christian's saying you gotta actually
fight. You're born to fight. Mm.
You just have to get outta your ego with this and you have to do it as just a
service. And I think when I, uh,
apply that type of teaching to my life, like sometimes I'm not a great singer.
I'm not a great, I, uh, you know, Indian classical music,
but I like to do it and I'm enthusiastic to it. And to me, it's a,
it's not about me. Uh it's about like, sort of like an offering.
It was like one of,
one of the first teachings I got in the asram was, um,
when you're on stage,
don't do it to make sure you're doing it to serve God and not be
God. Mm. That statement changed my entire life.
Yeah. And I was like, oh. Everything I do is to be God,
God everyth. And it changed the way. It didn't just change the way I sang.
It changed the way I parent changed the way I like react to, to friends,
to fans, to my parents. Yeah. Um, it,
it was powerful so that I have to, sometimes, you know,
I like to publicly sing on this. Have you ever heard Kean? No.
It's so interesting. What is it? It's it's it's it's um, chanting back in,
uh, call and response. Chanting of chanting mantras.
And you use like this pump piano and Indian drums. I'll place.
I'll place 'em for you later. Okay. And, uh, but it's great.
And it's popular in America. It's been sort of Eric A. Little bitamericanized.
Mm. But it's but it's good. And, uh, it's great.
And so what we do on pilgrimage is I have, I,
my assistant's an incredible drummer. He's from India. Uh, and then I,
I played the harmonium, which is his punk piano. And, uh,
we just sing publicly call and response.
And all the in Indian people in India will come around and they'll sing with us.
And it's like, it's all overwhelming.
So there's one particular temple I go to in one particular,
holy place where singers come from around the world, it's like basically,
you know, rolling stones led zapppelin.
It's like the best keton singers from around the world come and they sing.
And I remember one time I came with a bunch of students of mine and they
called me up to sing. And in my brain, I was like,
you guys are like the real deal. I don't wanna sing. And they were like, no, no,
no, you sing. And I was like, no, seriously, I don't wanna sing. Please.
You sing. And like thousands of pilgrims come in at the time.
And somehow I have felt like I have to do this.
I have to sing because that's what they're ordering me to do.
I have to do it in a loving way.
I have to do it in a way to make everybody excited,
but I can't do it with any ego whatsoever.
And it becomes like this incredible tight row walking mm-hmm. Yeah.
Can I do my best with a, can you get on stage? Yeah. And not,
it's not about me as the great comedian, you know,
mm-hmm <affirmative> can I do the,
sort of as a offering where I feel like be people are gonna walk away with
something and they're gonna be changed a little,
they're gonna be lifted a little,
they're gonna go home a little bit more connected.
It's gonna help me and it's gonna help them. And can I do it when,
and when people, we have this thing where we say, uh, we deflect our praise,
people say, Hey, great, sh uh, you're a great yoga teacher. Um,
this is how we train my students. You're a great yoga. Uh, oh,
that was a great thing. You did. Our,
our quick answer is by the mercy of my teachers. Like,
we don't wanna hold onto praise cuz praise exacerbates the ego. Yeah.
And so we immediately wanna say,
and it's not even like we're being falsely humble.
We actually are made up of the teachers in my life.
All the people that have loved me care for me. Um,
maybe people that have like screwed with me, but they also taught me a lesson.
So the Yogi's conception is everybody is creating what I am.
And therefore I don't own any of this. You wanna praise me me?
I'm gonna give the praise back to my teacher.
Now the teacher's mood is by the mercy of my teacher. I,
I look at back at my life and
I've realize I'm just like a ball of energy.
And generally the energy goes to like feed my ego. How can it feed my ego?
How can I use that to manipulate girls, to, to people like me?
How can I use everything?
I've got gifted for my own self aronized of
course. And so when you get these teachers in your life,
spiritual teachers who sort of like give you a loving, slap, or a loving, Hey,
and they turn you on in some way, they take what you already have.
And they read direct that north, instead of south,
everything I was doing was just a snowballing devastation.
And now you can, you don't re you don't give up those qualities that you have,
but you use them in a way that brings people up instead of brings em down.
That's what we were saying about movies too, or any entertainment or,
or sounds in.
Our mind that that state of my line that you're trying to achieve.
When you get on stage, where you're trying to sing with no ego,
that's exactly the, the frequency that you have to hit.
When you're doing comedy, you do your best,
but you don't do your best so that people love you. You do your best,
cuz that's what you're trying to do. That's your craft. That's your, this is,
this is your thing. Your thing that you do, your,
your expression, your art form, you have to manage it.
And the way to manage it correctly is you have, you can't,
you can't go out there with ego. You'll turn people off. They won't feel it.
You, you know, there's moments where you can use that,
especially with comedy where you turn, but it's not ego. It's like,
but even if you're doing it though in comedy,
you're doing it for the effect of making people laugh, right.
You're not doing it for the effect of pumping yourself up.
And you have to be very careful about that.
And if they know that that's what you're doing, they will accept it.
That's that's the art of it. Yes. That's the art of it. It's a dance, right?
There's a strange sort of dance that goes on.
I, I would noticed this is humiliating to mention, but I will,
if I wasn't doing it in a mood of service as an offering,
if I got off stage and that wasn't my motivation, I'd be depressed.
Yeah. Because maybe you can relate to this on stage.
I'm the center. I'm the coolest I'm, I'm it, they're singing so long lyrics.
I wrote mm-hmm <affirmative> on my bed and now they're all singing them.
And then I'm in another country right now. I'm off age. I'm a nobody.
So if you're not medicating with any type of drug or sex,
then all you're left with is a bunch of emotions. Interesting. And I, I, no,
this is true, but I, I think this is why people who are entertainers can,
can move towards addiction or ways, ways to mass, that,
that loneliness that comes with being the center where the whole world is trying
to convince you of the Maya. You've heard that word,
Maya yeah-hmm <affirmative> the illusion.
The illusion of life is that you are the center. I.